---
date updated: '2021-03-07T16:30:18+00:00'

---

## Discuss the extent to which it is desirable for a central bank to use foreign currency reserves to support its exchange rate (20 marks)

#Exchange-Rates #Marco
[[Exchange Rate Regimes]] [[Fixed Exchange Regimes]]

There are several ways that a central bank can support the countries exchange rate, and one of them is to sell foreign currency reserves. This works by increasing the supply of the currency, influencing it's price compared with the pound. This creates the effect of propping up the exchange rate.

To analyze why it might be desirable to sell foreign currency to prop up the exchange rate, we must look at the why they might need to prop it up and why selling off foreign reserves would be a better alternative than other methods. One major reason central banks use selling of reserves is the speed of its impact. Another method for influencing exchange rates is to use exchange rates. The major problem with using exchange rates is that they potentially take a long time to take effect. Changing the interest rate trickles down slowly through a variety of channels, meaning that the effect could take months. The use of interest rates could also have other unwanted side effects, such as reducing aggregate demand during a recession. Therefore selling foreign currency could be preferable.

One problem with selling reserves, is how hard it is to have the desired impact using them. While selling reserves certainly works on paper, when exchange rate is falling they central bank might find themselves fighting with other investors buying the currency, greatly undermining it's effectiveness. One prominent example of this is was Black Wednesday. This was when the UK joined the EU's exchange rate regime, requiring them to keep the exchange rate at a certain level. A man named George Soros sold roughly £108M in one night, causing the exchange rate to tank. The central bank stepped in and attempted to correct this by selling close to £30Bn but they were fighting a loosing battle with many other investors getting speculating and following suit and the government ended up being forced to leave the ERM. This showed that the amount need to fully correct damage is an uphill battle, making even correcting at all undesirable.

Another reason that it might be worse to use reserves is the effect of inflation. As a currency inflates from natural causes, in order to keep the exchange rate at the same place more and more reserves need to be purchased. Firstly, this type of spending isn't sustainable and could causes debt. As well as this, every time the government spends their currency one reserves they are loosing a small amount of money to the inflation. This can build up, have detrimental effects. One of the largest users of foreign reserves, China, currently has well in excess of $3Tn in USD in reserves and continues to buy more.

In conclusion, while the use of currency reserves are a useful tool for central banks to temporarily adjust exchange rates, in extreme circumstances they prove to be often ineffective at combating exchange rate movement and can cost the government billions. The final desirability of their use will depend heavily on circumstance: whether the government can use interest rates, whether they have enough reserves to sell, how much speculation there is.
